- ♪ You live inside my heart ♪
♪ Brown eyes in the line
of fire ♪
♪ I get worried
when you're gone too long ♪
- Sorry. did you say something?
- No. you just--
you were making a face.
Everything all right?
- Yeah. yeah. totally.
It's just. um--well. Rodge
wrote a new song about me.
I mean. he's so talented.
and it's so beautiful.
and it's all...
- A little overwhelming?
- Yeah.
- I wish somebody was
writing love songs about me.
The three of you are so happy.
and my love life
is as cold as a frosted frog.
- You're young. Penn.
There's plenty of time
to find true happiness.
- Yeah. or learn
to love being alone.
- All right. let's focus.
Just got out of a meeting
with the brass.
and everyone
is feeling the pinch.
Recruitment numbers are down.
Retirement numbers are up.
Bottom line.
prepare to work more OT
while the department
manages staffing shortages
and we launch this
new recruitment drive.
[phones buzzing]
- Oh!
- What's going on?
- We won!
We won!
[all cheering]
- Won what?
- The lottery!
Shangri-La has been playing
every week for 12 years.
We're rich. bitch!
Smitty out.
- When did you say
this recruitment drive was?
[upbeat music]
- ♪ I'm gonna win for you ♪
♪ Like I know
you want me to do ♪
- You should call in sick.
hang out with me on my day off.
- That would be a bad look
on my first day back.
- Oh. it'd be fine.
I mean. do you even have
an official job yet?
- No. and I'm trying so hard
to be Zen about that.
My former position was perfect.
It's my own fault for taking
a leave and going to D.C.
- Any idea what Captain
Fossett's gonna give you?
- No. we're talking
first thing this morning.
So what are you gonna do today?
- I'm gonna find out how
many naps is too many naps.
My plan is to do
absolutely nothing.
- Oh. you were gonna fix
the drain in the shower.
- Absolutely nothing except
fix the drain in the shower.
- Okay.
- Though I know
it's not my hair in there.
- What was that?
- I said.
have a good day out there.
- Okay.
[door opens. closes]
- I'm confused.
I just voted for you.
Why are you two going to work?
Shouldn't you be doing
the whole last-minute
campaigning thing?
- Uh. Rita wanted him to.
But we talked about it. and--
- I'm gonna lose. Badly.
- Rita gave us the latest
poll numbers and then quit.
- So rather than waste another
minute on a failed campaign
that neither one of us
enjoyed for a second.
we are "first day of the
rest of our lives-ing" it.
- Okay. well. I can't
complain about having
my bestie back on the job.
- Hey. why don't we
do dinner tonight?
Just the four of us.
- You're not gonna
watch the returns?
- No. there's no point.
- I love you. loser.
- I love you too.
- You would have made
an amazing DA.
- Thanks.
Bye.
- Vivian is gonna fire him
the second she wins. isn't she?
- 100%.
- Yeah.
All right. I'll be right in.
- All right.
- [sighs]
[line trilling]
- What's up?
- Hey.
Um. how would you feel about
having a small gathering
at your house tonight?
- Oh. what's the occasion?
- Wesley tanking the DA race.
- Is that cause
for celebration?
- No. but it is a time
for friends
to get together and support
each other no matter what.
Also. it needs to be a surprise
or else they'll just
try and talk me out of it.
- Got it.
Yeah. sure.
we can have it here.
- Great.
I will start a group chat.
- All right.
do you need me to--
and you hung up.
- Here's what I love--
the clear amount of industry
and effort that you've put in.
- But?
- But it is a little.
you know. narrowly focused.
Join the LAPD. be a badass
hero. protect the innocent.
It's reflective
of your lived experience.
but it's not exactly reflective
of the multitude
that is the LAPD.
- Yeah.
All right. you're in charge
of staffing this up.
- What?
Hold on. no. that's--
I was not trying to--
- Mm.
- Fine.
Penn. Juarez. you're on
a special assignment today.
- What? Penn's still a rookie.
- Exactly.
Who better to give insight
to a recruit than someone
going through training?
- Guys. get started.
The paperwork's inside.
- [sighs]
- Hey. how's it going?
- Good.
Did the brass send
you down here to help me
with the recruitment drive?
- In a consulting capacity.
and only if you need me.
So say you don't need me
so I can go back to work.
Ah!
- Whoa. are you okay?
- Yeah. I'm fine.
- Smitty.
- What?
- You quit.
- No.
I took an unscheduled day off
while I briefly submitted
my retirement papers.
But that's all done now.
- Why? What happened?
- Oh. they say I didn't kick in
for my share of the ticket.
so I don't get my
share of the payout.
But I'm always late
with my tenner.
They know I'm good for it.
- Ah!
- Oh. God. you are not okay.
- Okay. Smitty. make yourself
useful and get the lieutenant
down to Saint Stephen.
- No. no.
I can drive myself.
- No. you can't.
But I can call an ambulance.
- Or your wife?
We can call your wife.
- No. no. Definitely not.
Let's go. Smitty.
[groans]
I do not wanna hear
about your lottery situation.
- No problem.
But I do have a teletherapy
appointment starting in five.
so you might overhear a bit.
[knock at door]
- Good morning.
- Oh. good morning. Come on in.
- Thank you for being
so understanding.
I know I left you in the lurch
when I went to D.C.
- All good.
- So what do you have
in store for me?
- Well. obviously.
your old job is gone.
But we do have a new class
of paramedic recruits.
and I want you to train one.
- You're giving me a rookie?
- I am.
Oakley!
- Yes. sir?
- This is Bailey Nune.
You'll be training with her.
- Pleasure to meet you.
I'm eager to get started.
I've read everything there is
to read on triage medicine.
not just in the U.S.
but as far afield as Mumbai.
They published
a fascinating study
12 days ago
on emergency medicine
in high-density populations.
I'm can send you a link.
Do you read Hindi.
by any chance?
Or do you need
the English translation?
- Good luck.
- Officer in agony here.
- Bed 11.
- Oh. hell no.
I changed my mind.
I'm fine. I'm fine.
[groans]
- Oh. what is going on?
- He woke up with a stabbing
pain in his lower back.
And it hurts when he pees.
- Smitty!
- What?
I could hear you cursing from
outside the station bathroom.
- Oh. God.
- Wait. you're that doctor.
You're the one--oh!
- Smitty!
Get out of here. now.
Back to the station.
- Yes. sir.
Good luck.
- I'm the doctor that what?
- Like you don't know.
- I really don't. but you know
what?
That can wait till we figure
out what is going on with you.
- No. I want
a different doctor.
- I am the only one
who's free right now.
- I'll wait.
- You sure?
- Yeah.
[groans]
- Okay.
- [moans]
- Please tell me
you haven't napped yet.
and that you haven't forgotten
to fix the bathroom drain.
- No. of course not.
I. uh. just called to see
where you were assigned.
- I got a rookie.
- [gasps]
I knew you secretly
wanted to be me.
- I've never trained
anyone before.
It's my first day back.
and this kid is kind of green.
- So are you looking
for some tips?
- Would you come meet us.
give a first-blush eval
and maybe a few pointers?
- Yes. of course.
but it's gonna cost you.
- I should hope so.
I gotta go.
- All right.
looking forward to--
you hung up as well.
- A buttload of hemostatic
gauze. as requested.
How can I help?
- Okay. uh. watch first.
I like things a certain way.
A lot of people put
the first-in bag on the gurney.
but I like it
in the outside compartment.
- That way I can grab the
gurney while you grab the bag.
Smart.
- Mm.
- You know. in early agrarian
societies. they used to--
- Let's just focus on
modern emergency medicine.
- Okay. Yeah. of course.
But I find that understanding
the history of things
can give context
to modern emergency medicine.
and elucidates the reasons
why we do things
the way we do today.
- [chuckles]
- Look. you can spot
the losers a mile away.
Don't waste any time
with anyone
you know won't pass
the physical exam
or the psych eval.
- Got it.
- Have them fill out
a questionnaire.
let them know that we
follow up with a polygraph
and a background check.
That'll knock out at least
a third of the duds.
- Okay. just so I can set
expectations. I mean.
what ratio of good candidates
to losers should we expect?
[upbeat music]
- Does this background check
include Florida?
- So I have been arrested
before. but I wasn't convicted.
Does that count?
- Depends.
What was the charge?
- Befouling the punch bowl
at a company picnic.
[chuckles]
And felony murder.
♪ ♪
- And I thought to myself. why
not take this white-hot rage
that I feel every second
of every day
and use it for something
positive?
Like curb-stomping
violent felons?
- Okay. try MMA. Next.
- Morning.
Heard about
the personnel shortage.
and. uh. well. you guys need
cops. and I went back in.
So how can we make this happen?
[tense music]
- Where did you go to school?
- Johns Hopkins for my master's
in neuroscience.
Well. actually.
it was a double master's
in that and philosophy.
- Okay. Well. when we--
- And a PhD in molecular
biology at UCLA.
and then I spent a year at
Oxford doing medical research.
That was around the time
I started to think. uh.
maybe I should have
some real-life experience.
- Well. you've come
to the right place.
- Rescue-53.
respond to 31488 12th Avenue.
Man in distress.
unknown description.
unknown injuries.
- And there's no
better time to start.
Control. this is Rescue-53.
Show us responding.
[siren wailing]
♪ ♪
Control. this is Rescue-53.
on scene with the
distressed male at 12th Avenue.
- Thought we'd be
doing this over coffee.
- What better way to evaluate
him than seeing him in action?
- Seeing who in action?
- Exactly.
Jace. this is my husband. John.
He's off-duty LAPD.
- Nice to meet you.
He looks way more
than distressed.
- Let's flip him over.
Grab his head
and keep him stable.
On three.
One. two. three.
[grunts]
He's alive but unconscious.
Probably from heavy blood loss.
[grunts] Oh.
- Gunshot wounds.
- That explains
the heavy blood loss.
[tense music]
- [screams]
- Whoa. whoa. whoa!
- [grunting]
- Easy. easy. easy.
- I'm pushing ketamine.
- Relax.
We're trying to help you.
- [grunts]
[exhales]
- Let's get him
to Saint Stephen.
- All right.
I'll mobilize LAPD.
Radio's in the car.
[engine revving]
[tires screeching]
Oh.
- Oh-ho.
- Get away from him.
- Weapon?
- With the radio.
- Please don't hurt us.
- Get up. traitor!
- He can't answer you.
I gave him a sedative.
- Then wake him back up.
- That's not how
medicine works.
- And who the hell
are you. huh?
- I'm a doctor.
I'm just doing a ride-along.
- We can't stay here.
- Get Isak in the car.
- You can't do that.
That'll kill him.
- Then get him
in the ambulance.
You're gonna keep him alive
till we get what we need.
- I'm on it.
♪ ♪
- Whoa. whoa. whoa. hey.
Back up.
They got it.
What do you wanna
do with this guy?
- I need him.
I'm just a paramedic.
He's a doctor.
- All right. search him.
then let's get going.
Meet us back at the office.
- Hands up.
♪ ♪
Let's go.
- Come on. come on.
come on. come on.
Get in.
♪ ♪
[engine turning over]
[tires squealing]
♪ ♪
[tense music]
- You know. the history
of battlefield medicine
is truly fascinating.
Until about 50 years ago.
most major wounds
were guaranteed fatal.
- Hey. do you wanna die?
- No. not particularly.
- Then shut up and drive.
- What did this guy
do to you. anyway?
- He stole our money.
Isak here was in charge
of keeping it safe.
We were supposed to meet.
divvy it up.
Now he's stashed it somewhere.
trying to keep it
all for himself.
but that's not gonna happen.
- So this money he stole.
I'm assuming you recently
stole it from someone else?
Brink's truck? A bank? What?
- You ask a lot
of questions. Doc.
- Yeah. shut up.
The only answer
I care about is.
what exactly is your plan here?
- Three steps--
wake the traitor up.
get him to tell us where
the money is. kill him.
- This man is barely stable.
What happens if
the third step comes first?
- Then you're dying in
this ambulance along with him.
♪ ♪
- I knew Seth still had
dreams of being a cop.
but I did not think he would
try again at Mid-Wilshire.
- Yeah. well.
he thinks he's catching us
at a vulnerable moment.
- He's right--
we need cops on the street now.
not in six months after
the applicants finish training.
Technically. all he has
to do is pass his physical
and he's back in uniform.
- The physical
is not my concern.
It is everything else.
- Listen. Seth has changed.
I know it's hard to believe.
but he's committed
to a different path.
- You are biased. Penn.
because he saved your life.
- Guilty as charged. but...
he deserves a second chance.
- [whistles]
- [exhales]
Hey.
Okay. I'm ready.
Whatever you guys need.
- The only way
I'll even consider
recommending you
for reinstatement
is if you pass a polygraph.
[tense music]
- [inhales and exhales]
Okay.
[clears throat]
Let's do it.
- Why are you
refusing treatment?
- I'm not.
I just saw a doctor who told me
I have kidney stones.
Major ones.
- I'm sorry.
I heard that pain
is excruciating.
Well. while you
are being treated.
I am your patient advocate.
So is there anything that you
would like me to advocate for?
- Yes.
I was severely
mistreated by Dr. Ashton.
I want him fired.
- Wade.
- Hey. you asked.
- I will check on you
in a little bit.
- [groans]
- Luna.
Uh. look. can I talk to you?
Did you and your husband
separate because of me?
- What? No.
You were something
of a catalyst.
- Um. I'll admit to enjoying
some harmless flirting.
but if I ever gave you
the impression that
I wanted anything more--
- You absolutely gave me
that impression.
If I had suggested over dinner
that we check into a hotel.
you wouldn't have said no.
- Probably not.
- You tell yourself
that it's harmless.
But what it is. is selfish.
It doesn't matter to you
what the fallout could be.
because you can just walk away.
Thank God I came to my senses.
- Okay. we're gonna start
with some easy questions.
Please restrict your answers
to either a yes or a no.
Is your name
Seth William Ridley?
- Yes.
- Do you live
at 3200 Blix Street?
- Yes.
- Are you 25 years old?
- Okay.
Now. to establish
a proper baseline.
I'm gonna ask you
the same questions.
but this time.
I want you to lie.
Do you understand? All right.
Is your name
Seth William Ridley?
- No.
- Do you live at
3200 Blix Street?
- No.
- Okay. let's start.
Did you ever tell me that
your high school girlfriend
died from a drug overdose?
- Yes.
- Was that a lie?
- Were you in love
with Tamara Colins?
- Yeah. I wanted to marry her.
- A simple yes or no. Ridley.
- Sorry. yes.
Yes.
- One year ago.
did you have cancer?
- I did not. no.
- During that time. did you
ever believe you were sick?
- No.
- [sighs]
- On the day
of the canyon wildfire.
did the National
Weather Service call you
about the fire spreading across
Eagle Rock Road?
- Do we really--
- Answer the question.
Did you receive a call
from the Weather Service?
- Yes.
- Did you relay
that information
to the officers in the field?
- He means us.
Did you try to tell us?
- No.
- On purpose?
I got distracted. and it was
too late to warn you.
I knew that you
were pinned down.
That was my fault.
I'm sorry.
But I--I was too afraid
to say anything.
- No. you lied to cover up your
mistake. like you always do.
[tense music]
- Yes.
[sighs]
No. Mm-mm.
Not anymore.
[machine beeping]
- He's crashing.
♪ ♪
His pulse is weak.
He has a pneumothorax.
The pressure is building
in his chest cavity.
♪ ♪
Hold him steady.
I'm gonna puncture his chest.
[truck rattling]
♪ ♪
If you won't take us
to a hospital.
I need to be
someplace not moving.
- You need to listen to her.
- Aren't you the doctor?
Why is she doing everything?
- I'm a radiologist.
- We don't have time
for résumés.
We need to stop the ambulance.
- How long till we
get to the office?
- We're landing now.
♪ ♪
Come on. come on.
[muffled hard rock music]
I'll get the boss.
- Let's get Isak on the table.
Clear it off.
♪ ♪
[grunting]
- How's he doing?
- Not well.
All the fluid
I transfused into him
just keeps coming
right back out.
He's running out of time.
- How long before your dispatch
realizes you're missing?
- A few hours.
Firefighters aren't as worried
about random violence as cops.
- Perhaps it's time
to revisit that policy.
- I'm dying to know
why you brought these randos
to the office and not my money.
- Isak took the cash and ran.
We only caught up to him
after he hid it.
and he started shooting.
- And you shot back?
Before you got my money?
- Well. Helms got
a little excited.
- Hey. we all emptied a clip.
- I told you to call--
- Shut up!
You're making my head hurt.
How bad is our boy?
- Critical.
He needs a hospital.
- Not happening. Wake him up.
Give him the "Pulp Fiction"
shot right in the heart.
- That shot. epinephrine.
would kill him.
[gunshot]
- No!
[tense music]
- I'm only gonna say this once.
You got ten minutes to wake
him up so I can find my money.
or I shoot this man next.
- [groaning]
- Don't. No.
- I have to help him
or he's gonna die.
- That's why I shot him.
Get him talking. now.
[tense music]
- Whoa. whoa. whoa. hey!
- Let me triage my rookie.
or I cut your guy's carotid.
and you'll never
find your money.
- Check out
"Bourne Identity" Barbie.
What about
the Hippocratic Oath?
- That's for doctors.
not paramedics.
♪ ♪
- Okay. how about this?
You let her resurrect Isak.
and you let me treat Jace.
Is that okay?
♪ ♪
- Fine. Viggo. watch him.
If he tries to be a hero.
cap 'em both.
- Hey. I got you.
- [grunts]
- You all right?
- You know. not really.
Oh. God. that's a lot of blood.
- Yeah.
- I'm--I'm gonna need some
hemostatic gauze on there.
- Right. you and me. we're
gonna need to work together.
so slow breaths. okay?
- All right. you're gonna apply
some serious pressure on there.
I might make some noise.
- Right. Ready?
- [gasps. yells]
Okay. Uh-huh.
Uh. I'm gonna pass out now.
- All right.
- Hey. hey.
Forget about the bleeding.
Boss said wake him up.
- He's in hypovolemic shock.
His blood pressure
has cratered.
He's about to die.
- If he dies.
we are screwed. man.
- If he's bleeding out.
give him more blood.
- I don't have any.
So unless one of you
is O-negative.
the universal blood donor.
we're out of luck.
- Yeah. no. that's me.
I needed a transfusion
after I took one in the leg
on the Long Beach job. okay?
They told me I was O-negative.
- Perfect.
Roll up your sleeve.
[funky percussive music]
- Hi.
- I'm here to join the LAPD.
- What? Are you serious?
- Oh. God. no.
I'd make a terrible cop.
- Aw.
- I came by to say hi.
and to see if
you'd had time to listen
to the song.
- I did. I did.
- Oh. I'm gonna go grab a soda.
You want anything?
- No. I'm good.
- I'll take a chocolate milk.
- You didn't like it.
- Are you kidding?
It made me cry the first
ten times I listened to it.
But it's a lot of pressure.
you know?
Imagine how Mona Lisa felt
when Da Vinci painted her.
I mean.
everyone constantly judging
whether she was worthy of
being memorialized like that.
- Wow. yeah. I never thought
about it like that.
Thank you for comparing me
to Da Vinci.
That's an ego boost for sure.
Okay. I can change it up.
I can add a line
about your morning breath
or how you kick me
in your sleep.
- Okay. I do not. Do I?
No.
- Hey! Hi.
I'm here to sign up
for a cop job.
- You are in the right place.
What drew you
to law enforcement?
- My boyfriend's a cop. and we
don't get to spend much time
together.
so I thought this way.
we could see
each other every day.
- Oh. that's amazing.
- You probably know him--
Franklin Rose.
- Franklin Rose?
- Doesn't ring a bell.
but you've been here
longer than me. so...
- Well. I don't know him.
But. I mean.
it's a big building.
- I'll show you a picture.
[giggles]
- Uh. is this recent?
- Yeah.
I took it of him last week
before he went to work.
- Do you mind
if I take a picture?
Great.
This will help me find him.
Oh. you know.
here's an application.
Why don't you fill it out over
there while I track him down?
- Okay. thanks.
- Yeah.
- What's wrong?
- The badge is all wrong.
- Yeah. this thing
is from the 1970s.
- Maybe he was just trying
to impress his girlfriend.
- By committing a felony?
- You know. I have heard rumors
about low-level dealers getting
ripped off by cops
who confiscate their drugs
and let them off
with a warning.
- Classic dope rip.
- All right.
I'm gonna need to talk to her.
- Not a problem.
she's still outside.
We'll go get her.
[phone rings]
- Hey.
did you get everything?
- Boy. did I.
You really think
he's gonna appreciate us
paying your demotion party
forward?
- If not. we will get him
drunk enough that
he forgets it ever happened.
[knock at door]
All right. I gotta go.
I love you.
- I love you too.
Hey.
- Hey.
- Your ears must be burning.
- Oh. yeah?
Why?
- Oh. well. uh. just. uh--
[chuckles]
I was watching a news story
about the election.
What's up?
- Do you remember. like.
a thousand years ago.
when this all started.
we talked about doing
an announcement speech
to lay out
my full progressive agenda?
- Yeah.
before you chickened out.
- Well. if I'm gonna
concede this election.
I want to go out swinging.
I want everyone to know
exactly what I believe.
Can you give me an assist?
My speechwriter quit.
- Sure.
Yeah. I--I sure can.
You know. how about you
follow me into my office?
Step in over here.
- Yeah.
- What kind of things are
you thinking about changing?
- I really liked what we
did the first time around.
I just didn't get to
nail it. you know?
- Oh. right.
- So what's the verdict?
- Well.
according to the polygraph.
you told the truth
about everything.
- Which was unexpected.
and proves that
you've made a real effort
to change.
- Okay. great.
No? It's--no?
- Look. the fact
that you knowingly
let us drive into danger.
failed to do anything about it.
and then lied
to protect yourself.
is unforgivable
to the department.
- Even though I sacrificed
myself to save Nolan's life?
What about that?
Does my loss
count for anything?
- Honestly. it's not enough.
Even if you were to reapply
to the FTO program.
I would have to share
those test results
with Internal Affairs.
- Wait.
So this--this whole thing's
a setup. a catch-22?
I lie about the fire.
and I fail the test.
I tell the truth and then
you're gonna use it against me?
I thought you were
giving me a fair shot here.
- Look. I'm sorry.
I can see that
you are genuinely
trying to be a better person.
but there is no coming back
from what you did.
not here.
- [sighs]
Okay. I understand.
[sniffs. sighs]
Thank you for giving me the
opportunity to tell the truth.
I know that could not
have been easy.
given what I put you through.
Oh. man. I thought it would be
enough for me
to come in here
and to say I'm sorry
and to do the work and not be
that guy anymore. but...
[somber music]
I guess I finally understand
that there are simply things
I just don't
get to have anymore.
There are doors
that I closed that--
that I'm never gonna reopen.
Thank you.
Appreciate everything you
taught me. I really do.
♪ ♪
- Good luck. Ridley.
You walk out of here knowing
you finally took responsibility
for your actions.
and in my book.
that counts for something.
- Thank you.
♪ ♪
[sighs]
- Bad news--there's
no cop in the LAPD
with your boyfriend's name.
- Check again.
He's closed massive cases.
The mayor gave him an award.
- I'm so sorry.
but none of that is true.
- Well. if he's lying.
why is his boss on your wall?
[tense music]
♪ ♪
- You sure that's him?
- Yeah. Captain Jennings.
- Okay. well.
that is problematic
in a whole different way.
Howard Jennings
doesn't work here either.
He retired eight years ago.
[machinery beeping]
- Keep pumping.
It needs to flow.
or it'll coagulate.
- Damn. bro.
the human body is so cool.
- He's stabilizing.
- Uh. you might wanna
take a look at this.
I think his femoral hyperglobus
is exfoliating.
As soon as they find out
where the money is.
they're gonna kill us.
We need a way out.
- Well. you're the forgotten
man right now.
So if you see a move to make.
do it. and I'll jump in.
- [coughing]
- Mm.
Hey. Sleeping Beauty.
- Where am I?
- You're in hell. bitch.
- [laughs]
- Where's my money?
- Screw you.
- Come on. Isak.
You can't take it with you.
- Okay. I'll tell you.
Come here.
I'll tell you.
I hid it--come here.
[spits. laughs]
- Just give him a second.
He's still coming
out of sedation.
- He's never gonna tell us.
He's just gonna screw us
and then die.
I hope it hurts. man.
I hope you're in so much pain
you're praying for the sweet
mercy of death.
because it's coming. man.
- I don't feel good.
Can you unhook me?
- Hey. lady. you might wanna
tighten that tourniquet.
- Whoa. whoa. don't!
- No!
- [screaming]
- Where's my money?
You tell me or
I'll take a foot!
- Hey. what's that mean?
- His heart stopped!
- Get him back. now!
- You yell at him
after shooting him.
then you chop his arm off?
What the hell's wrong with you?
- I'm getting my money.
I spent six months
planning this job.
- Yeah. from the safety of this
office. while we're the ones
sticking our necks out!
- Can we bring him back?
- No.
- Then we're out of time.
- Yeah.
- Hey. stop arguing!
Get over here and help me.
- With what?
- To fix your boss's mistake!
I need you to pinch off
this artery so I can
give him a shot of adrenaline.
- Do it.
[tense music]
[metal clanging]
Hey!
- Get down. honey.
- [grunts]
- He's a cop!
[gunshot]
- [groans]
- Stay down!
[gunshots]
- [grunts]
[line trilling]
- Did we win?
- Yes. we did. because of you.
- 911.
what's your emergency?
- This is Officer John Nolan.
I need three units
and an ambulance.
Code three. multiple assailants
and one
critically wounded paramedic.
Great job. honey.
- [exhales]
- Uh. I appreciate
you coming in
on such short notice. Captain.
- Oh. are you kidding me?
The Margaret Hoffman case is
the one I can never forget.
If you've got a fresh lead.
I'll move heaven and Earth
to help you
bring her killer to justice.
- We've got our old files
laid out in here.
- Let's do it.
- Captain.
I am Detective Nyla Harper.
This is Detective Angela Lopez.
- This isn't about
Margaret Hoffman?
- No. sir.
I'll leave you to it.
- [chuckles]
Think you can intimidate me
with your little.
uh. setup here?
- No. sir.
You're a legendary tough guy.
- Who inspired loyalty in his
men and fear in his enemies.
- Who the hell are you
to mock me?
- Your worst nightmare
is the first thing that springs
to mind. but I don't know.
It sounds a little cringey
when I say it out loud. huh?
- We'll workshop it later.
- Okay.
- Right now. we're dying
to know what happened to you.
Why cross over
to the dark side?
- I have no idea what you're
talking about. and I'm leaving.
- I guess we'll just
have to get our answers
from Franklin Rose.
- Or the other two felons
that you recruited.
Marcus Kennedy
and Jeremiah Gomez.
- [chuckles]
And what crimes do you think
these men have been doing?
- Well. robbing
drug dealers so you can
sell the product yourself.
- Hmm.
- And before you protest that
you've never heard of them.
we have Jeremiah
and Marcus in custody.
And they dropped your name
the second the cuffs came out.
- It's over. sir.
We will be placing you
under arrest.
You have the right
to remain silent.
Anything you say
can and will be used
against you in a court of law.
You have the right
to an attorney.
If you cannot
afford an attorney.
one will be provided for you.
Do you understand?
[tense music]
♪ ♪
- Yeah.
Yeah. I understand.
My entire career.
I never once crossed the line.
I was as straight an arrow
as you could be.
But my personal life
was a bit. uh. more chaotic.
- Three wives. six kids?
- Seven.
- Oof.
Got expensive.
- Got ridiculous.
Credit cards were
all maxed out.
I was behind on everything.
You spend your entire career
cleaning up messes
desperate people made.
feeling superior.
Turns out.
we all have a tipping point.
I was just gonna do
the dope rips
until I got caught up
financially.
I thought. who the hell
am I hurting?
Drug dealers?
They'd shoot their mother
for a Trans Am.
♪ ♪
I gave my life to the job.
I did way more good for this
city than the wrong I did now.
♪ ♪
Let's go. Come on.
[tense percussive music]
♪ ♪
- That's Franklin.
Hi.
- Hey. baby.
- I hope it's okay.
I wanted to surprise you.
- Boy. did you.
- They were having
a recruitment drive
and I thought.
wouldn't it be fun
if you and me worked together?
- It would.
Yeah. it sure would.
But listen. baby. you haven't
actually gone inside
and talked to anybody yet.
have you?
- No. I waited
like you asked me to.
- Great.
Oh. that is so great.
Listen. so I do have
a couple errands I have to run.
Why don't you come with me?
- No.
No! Help!
- Hey. hey! Hands!
Show me your hands!
Turn around and walk
to the glass. now.
- All right.
- Turn around!
- Franklin Rose. you're under
arrest for felony robbery.
- Guys. just let me
call my boss.
- No need. my man.
Captain Jennings
is already in holding.
Let's move.
♪ ♪
- Kitty.
Kitty. are you serious?
- [sighs]
I've really got
a golden gut. huh?
I wouldn't know a decent guy
if he came up to me and said--
- Hey. you weren't kidding
when you said
you had to go do a thing before
we could drown my sorrows. huh?
- Mm-hmm.
- Hi.
Kitty Adams.
- Seth Ridley.
Nice to meet you. Kitty.
You. uh. new to town?
You don't really have
a big city vibe going on.
In a good way.
- Uh. Kitty.
I don't think you should--
- Why don't you
blow off your friends
and have a drink
with me instead?
I'll tell you my life story.
- Go for it. dude.
- Okay.
- What?
- Nothing.
Maybe it's such a bad idea.
it's actually good.
- [giggling]
[machinery beeping]
- [exhales]
- Detectives from
the Pacific Division
have connected our kidnappers
to a bank robbery
in Santa Monica.
They made off
with over $2 million.
- Well. that explains why they
were so desperate to find it.
- And why Isak was so
determined not to tell them.
- Well. he took that secret
to the grave.
- Which means that money's
still out there.
- Hmm.
Treasure hunt later?
- Well. we'd just have
to give it back.
- Right. that's less fun.
- Less fun.
- Mm.
- The good news
is that I'm alive.
What's the bad news?
- Well. all things considered.
there is none.
The surgery was
straightforward.
And the bullet missed
all your major organs.
- Oh. thank God.
But this leaves us with
the outstanding question--
is this a life lesson
or a cautionary tale?
- Something tells me
you already know
the answer to that.
- Oh. cautionary tale all day.
I'm definitely a thinker
and not a doer.
- Well. personally.
I think you would have made
an excellent paramedic.
You have more brain power
than this entire hospital
and just the right amount
of bravery.
- That means a lot coming from
the legend that is Bailey Nune.
And your husband's
pretty cool too.
- I told you.
- I'll keep him.
- You know. this reminds me
of a fun allegory from Plato.
It's much more compelling
in the original ancient Greek--
- Shh. I think you should rest.
- I'm fine.
I'll just catch an Uber.
- You will not.
I will drive you to your hotel.
Plus. you promised me
that we would have the chance
to really talk.
so I am going to
take you hostage until we do.
- [chuckles]
That's my girl.
- For what it's worth.
I slammed the door
in Ashton's face today.
- [laughs]
- Figuratively.
- Disappointing.
[Madeleine Roger's
"Love Only Grows"
- Like I told you before.
he was just a temptation.
nothing more.
But it did shake me up a bit.
You have to admit that
our marriage has been
pretty static
the last few years.
- I would have said solid.
but I understand what you mean.
I also understand now
that this was more than
just a new job for you.
It was the beginning
of something.
But my question is.
does our marriage have
a part in this new beginning?
- Yes.
I just got my head
turned around.
and I made a mess of things.
I want us to be healthy again.
I know we can't
just click our heels together
and make that happen.
- We can
if we do it in therapy.
- Yes. I think that's exactly
where we should do it.
Look. how about
if I take you home?
You can sleep in
the guest room if you want.
but we can keep talking.
- [exhales. chuckles]
Okay. I'd like that.
♪ ♪
You're not getting
none tonight.
- I'm just being your crutch.
- I'm just saying.
- ♪ Doesn't know
what to do about you ♪
- Come here to celebrate
the death of Shangri-La?
- Not at all.
It's been a challenging day
all around.
I wanted to make sure
you're doing okay.
- Well. thanks. kid.
That's a lot more thoughtful
than my traitorous
lottery neighbors have been.
They couldn't wait
to get out of here.
- [laughs] I mean.
it looks like they bought you
a few things on the way out.
though.
- Oh. if they think
they can talk me out of suing
by buying me barbecues
and ice makers.
they are sadly mistaken.
- Does that mean that
they're up for grabs?
- No. I'm not an idiot.
I already sold them on eBay
for a buttload.
- Okay.
- Since you're both here. uh.
I'm way past due with flushing
the septic system on the RV.
and it takes at
least three hands.
- Oh. we got that--we--
- With the--we gotta--
- We got other plans.
That thing.
- That thing.
The thing. yes.
- Yeah. that thing. Yep. yep.
- Yeah.
You have yourself
a good night. okay?
- Mm-hmm.
- Okay.
- Bye. Mr. Smitty.
- Hey. guys.
Thank you.
- Early returns are coming in.
- Good news?
- No. we're getting crushed.
- Hey.
- Okay.
So my concession speech
is prerecorded.
ready to be released
into the world
just as soon as
I officially lose.
- It's soon. babe.
They're ready to call it.
- Mm.
- Listen.
let us take you to dinner.
We know this great Mexican spot
up in the Valley.
- Oh. is it
Nolan and Bailey's place?
- You told.
- He saw all the decorations.
What. you wanted me to lie?
- Yes.
- It's fine.
I can think of no better place
to celebrate my failures
than with all of my friends.
- ♪ You made it
to the finish line ♪
♪ And fell down on your face
♪ While everybody watched
♪ You lost the race
you tried to win ♪
♪ And you can't even argue
♪ 'Cause you lost by a lot
- I did.
[laughs]
- ♪ You tried your best
and you got wrecked ♪
♪ And now you're looking
all depressed. oh ♪
♪ ♪
♪ You made a new mistake.
you feel ashamed ♪
♪ You don't have to lie awake
♪ If you think you're
on your own. just come home ♪
♪ We'll be waiting
♪ When you don't know
what to do anymore ♪
♪ That's what we're here for
[together]
Yeah!
- ♪ That's what
we're here for ♪
[vocalizes]
- Get me a piece to eat.
- This just feels weird.
Oh. okay.
Just--well. that's my--okay.
- Yeah.
There.
- Well. thank you.
- They're about
to play your speech.
You wanna turn on the news?
- No.
No. I think that's
in our rearview mirror now.
- Well. Vivian was
gonna fire you anyways.
Might as well speak your truth.
- It felt so good
to cut through the noise--
you know.
stop playing politics.
It also made me realize
how little I'd accomplished
at the DA's office.
I mean. I tried to change
the system from within.
But without being the boss.
without having that power.
it's a losing battle.
So I think I'm gonna go back
to being a defense lawyer.
- I figured.
But there are a lot of cops
who are gonna feel betrayed.
like you're siding
with the enemy.
- Well. there's only one cop
whose opinion I care about.
- Oh.
- Yeah.
- I'm all for it.
Our sex life was unreal
when we were on opposite sides.
- Yes. it was.
Oh.
- Okay.
- Mmm.
Okay. Okay.
[chuckles]
- Here's the thing--
I wrote the song because
I think you're incredible.
and because I got
really excited
when I realized that Celina
rhymes with zebra and subpoena.
- Does it. though?
- Close enough for art.
Look. I'm sorry that it
made you feel self-conscious.
but a song is not
a statement of truth.
It's an opinion.
I think you're the most
beautiful woman in the world.
That does not objectively
make you that.
- Okay. well. in case
you haven't noticed.
I am a painfully humble person.
I mean. how can I not be?
I'm surrounded by the most
amazing people on the daily.
I mean. seriously.
take a look at that group
of badass overachievers.
every single one of them
a unicorn in their own way.
- And you belong
right there with them.
I won't be taking any
arguments at this time.
- [knocking]
- Oh. the speech.
[glass clinking]
- Uh. everyone. if you'd
gather around. it is official.
Sadly. Wesley will not be
the new district attorney.
[all booing]
- That's okay.
- But. Wesley.
clearly everybody in this room
is fiercely proud of you
for putting yourself out there
and shining a light on
what is wrong with our system
and the ways in which
it could be fixed
if we were only collectively
brave enough to try.
So we raise our glasses to you.
To Wesley.
- Whoo!
[together] To Wesley!
- Thank you.
I can't say that it was
an enjoyable experience.
But man was it memorable.
We've all gone through
so much together this year.
and sometimes it felt like it
was more than we could handle.
But it wasn't.
because we had each other.
It's safe to say that I have
no idea what the future
has in store.
but I do know one thing--
we won't be going
through it alone.
because we're a family.
So thank you.
- Hear. hear.
- Yeah!
- Whoo!
- Let's eat.
- Please.
- ♪ When you don't know
what to do anymore ♪
♪ That's what we're here for ♪
♪ ♪
- Damn it.